This inventory is a growing and living database of dams and surveyed road/stream
crossings (potential barriers) compiled by the Southeast Aquatic Resources
Partnership with the generous support from many partners and funders.
Information about network connectivity, landscape condition, and presence of
threatened and endangered aquatic organisms are added to this inventory to help
you investigate barriers at any scale for your desired purposes.

This inventory consists of datasets from local, state, and federal partners. It
is supplemented with input from partners with on the ground knowledge of
specific structures. The information on barriers is not complete or
comprehensive across the region, and depends on the availability and
completeness of existing data and level of partner feedback. Some areas of the
region are more complete than others but none should be considered 100%
complete.

All network analyses were conducted using the NHD High Resolution Plus dataset
(https://www.usgs.gov/core-science-systems/ngp/national-hydrography/nhdplus-high-resolution).

If you are able to help improve the inventory by sharing data or assisting with field
reconnaissance, please contact us (https://southeastaquatics.net/about/contact-us).

Note: data come from a variety of sources and available descriptive information
is not comprehensive.

Also note: information on rare species is highly limited.

The data made available through this tool represent substantial effort
and investment from the Southeast Aquatic Resources Partnership
(SARP) and SARP's funders, partners, and data contributors.


Credits:
------------
This project was supported in part by grants from the U.S. Fish and Wildlife
Service Fish Passage Program, American Rivers, the U.S. Department of
Agriculture, Forest Service, the National Fish and Wildlife Foundation, The
Nature Conservancy, Trout Unlimited the Gulf Coastal Plains and Ozarks Landscape
Conservation Cooperative, and the Florida State Wildlife Grants Program.


Network types:
------------
There are results for 5 types of networks included in this dataset:

1)  Upstream functional network: this network extends upstream from a given barrier
    or the natural outlet of the network (i.e., outlet into ocean) up to any
    upstream barriers or headwaters.  This is a dendritic network and includes
    all tributaries up to their barrier or headwaters.
2)  Downstream functional network: this network is the functional upstream network
    of the next barrier downstream or natural outlet of the network.  It therefore
    includes tributaries into that network that are not directly in the downstream
    flow direction from the focal barrier of the network.
3)  Upstream mainstem network: this network extends upstream from a given barrier
    and is limited to flowlines with >= 1 square mile drainage area that have the
    same stream order as the reach where the barrier is located.  This network
    is not dendritic and does not include tributaries of lower size classes.  It
    may not fully extend to the next barrier upstream.
4)  Downstream mainstem network: this network extends downstream from a given
    barrier in the downstream flow direction and is limited to flowlines with
    >= 1 square mile drainage area that have the same stream order as the reach
    where the barrier is located.  If the barrier occurs at a convergence where
    the stream order is greater on the downstream side than the incoming
    flowlines on the upstream side, the stream order of the downstream side is
    used for the downstream mainstem network.  It may not fully extend to the
    next barrier downstream.
5)  Downstream linear network: this network extends downstream from a given
    barrier in the downstream flow direction to the next downstream barrier or
    natural outlet of the network.


Note: all network types exclude all network "loops" formed by divergences that
reconverge downstream.  These loops are identified at various points within the
aquatic network within the NHD dataset, and do not always correctly distinguish
between the main flow channel and side channels in highly braided river systems.

Note: not all network statistics are calculated for removed barriers.  Mileage
statistics for removed barriers are based other barriers present at the time a
given barrier is removed, including barriers removed in the same year, with
the exception of mileage gain statistics, which assumes that barriers immediately
upstream and removed in the same year were already removed.  That is, for two
barriers in series on the network that are removed in the same year, the
upstream-most mileage gain is based on both barriers being present, whereas for
the downstream barrier, it assumes the upstream one has already been removed.
Do not sum mileage gained statistics for removed barriers as this will lead to
double-counting those miles.